
Problem (60 seconds)
affects of landslides
unsustainable human living, living in permanent locations
yyyyy
impact on humans


Solution (60 seconds)
how,how,how,how,how


MVP - Idea (60 seconds)
images of unfinished ideas
- the user input image
- heatmap - map the events against a heatmap of risk factors, to show its also offering a solution, not just reporting

X-Factor/Scalability (60 seconds)
sustainability - how much ongoing effort?
legacy - impact on the world 50 years away
dont talk about the technical things we are doing in future, talk about the benefits of the tech






- write a script
- 3.5 mins
- judging criteria
- 


breakdown
30-45: problem
75-90: solution
30: competitive advantage
30-45: scale
20-30: x-factor


Goals:
improve resilience of poor during landslide events
reduce deaths

Intro Slide

Slide 1 (problem) :  20 seconds
why a danger to life? - global warming is increasing incidents of extreme weather
	- landslides are impacted by weather conditions
Causes: deforestation, over-population, human development, water-ways, rainfall, fault-lines

Script:
Landslides are a huge problem today will only continue to become more so as the world continues as it is.
They are heavily impacted by humans with development and deforestation, as well as by many natural causes such
	as proximity to water-ways, rainfall and positioning near fault lines.

Slide 2 (problem): 25 seconds
why underreported? - people dont report them in developing and sparesly populated areas
why? - no globally kept standard recording
why? - need to monitor the whole earth, humans only cover some % of this

Script:
Their impact is often underrepresented by the gathered data, especially in developing areas in the world, notably
	South America and Africa.
Currently some of the most comprehensive data on landslide events comes from information reported by media.
Scientific data on landslides has been approached by the use of satellite imagery with some success.
The lack of global reporting and the fact that much of the earth is sparesely populated mean organising a
	centralised data location will have a great impact.


DEMO (solution): 60 seconds
DEMO
Access for information - view main map image, hover over risk factors
Opportunity for crowd-sourcing - form

Script:



Slide 3 (solution): 30 seconds
Risk rating heatmap - mock up a heatmap of risk rating - R Alec

Script:
We acquired data from a number of sources relating to the factors that may contribute landslides.
This included environmental data such as daily rainfall and information about earthquake events
	as well as data on human settlements and their geo-locations.
We found that the main risk factors for landslides are:
blah
and made a breif risk rating system that categorises areas into a risk rating. This could then be used to overlay
	a heat map so people can search for their area, and it will also give them information as to why the risk
	rating was acheived in their chosen location.



Slide 5 (scale): 30 seconds
Crowd sourcing requires minimal input
-rainfall
-other disasters
-deforestation
-mapping locations of water-ways
-possibly using satellite imagery to classify these

Sript:
Where do we go from here?
Disastr Data is an idea that can build upon the efforts of people around the globe as the crowd-sourcing of data
	will snowball and benefits will grow.
Getting more data from satellite imagery will allow us to classify areas to gather data such as the locations of
	water-ways that will greatly improve the risk rating suggestions. As well as leveraging current weather data
	to give warnings.

Slide 6 (X-FACTOR): 30 seconds
Integration of more environment classification will improve risk rating analysis









